Webperf docs (#879)
allegro/turnilo: docs/webperf.md

# Web performance

* TOC

>   {:toc}

Reviewer: ![Zrzut ekranu 2022-03-14 o 10 09 42](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22297591/158140434-f6c172bd-3026-44c0-9258-b50e3514cfa3.png)

Is this the desired result?

Reviewer 2: It will be populated during docs deployment to https://allegro.github.io/turnilo/

Reviewer: Thanks for the explanation, now we know who doesn't read the documentation 😄

  
## Overview

> Important aspect of Turnilo is its web performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An important aspect of Turnilo is its web performance.
```

Upon every change to the codebase we should track how performance changes.

## JS bundle size

> Bundle size can easily inflate, particularly when app has plenty of dependencies, just like Turnilo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bundle size can easily inflate, particularly when an app has plenty of dependencies, just like Turnilo.
```

With every change we should keep track of the bundle size, especially when we add a new dependency.

> Before adding new dependency, please consider smaller alternative in terms of bundle size. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before adding a new dependency, please consider smaller alternatives in terms of bundle size. 
```
```suggestion
Before adding a new dependency, please consider a smaller alternative in terms of bundle size. 
```

Tools like [Bundlephobia](https://bundlephobia.com/) will help to recon cost of library and find alternatives.

### Size-limit

> [Size-limit Github Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/size-limit-action) will help to stay with assets size on the budgets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Size-limit Github Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/size-limit-action) will help to stay with assets size in the budget.
```

On each pull request this action will post a comment with current bundle size and its delta.

**Each time budgets are exceeded CI will fail.**

You can adjust budgets in `size-limit` section of `package.json`.

### Bundle analysis by Statoscope

> On every build report about Webpack's bundle is made by [Statoscope](https://statoscope.tech/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On every build a report about Webpack's bundle is made by [Statoscope](https://statoscope.tech/). 
```

You can find these under `build/report-*.html`. 
Among others it offers detailed tree-map of the client bundle. 
For example it helps to figure out which dependencies are the heaviest.

### Transpiling dependencies

> Usually pre-transpiled dependencies are bad for bundle size, since they can include utilities like babel's helpers or TS' `tslib`. It's a problem because stuff like this is unnecessary for modern browser and hence inside the bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually pre-transpiled dependencies are bad for bundle size, since they can include utilities like Babel's helpers or TS' `tslib`. It's a problem because stuff like this is unnecessary for modern browsers and hence inside the bundle.
```

> Usually pre-transpiled dependencies are bad for bundle size, since they can include utilities like babel's helpers or TS' `tslib`. It's a problem because stuff like this is unnecessary for modern browser and hence inside the bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually pre-transpiled dependencies are bad for bundle size, since they can include utilities like babel's helpers or TS' `tslib`. It's a problem because stuff like this is unnecessary for modern browser and hence it is inside the bundle.
```

I feel like it is missing a verb here.

Reviewer 2: "and hence it should not be included in the bundle"?

Reviewer: > "and hence it should not be included in the bundle"?
This makes much more sense 🙈

> Usually pre-transpiled dependencies are bad for bundle size, since they can include utilities like babel's helpers or TS' `tslib`. It's a problem because stuff like this is unnecessary for modern browser and hence inside the bundle.

Author: ```suggestion
Usually pre-transpiled dependencies are bad for bundle size, since they can include utilities like babel's helpers or TS' `tslib`. It's a problem because stuff like this is unnecessary for modern browser and hence it should not be included in the bundle.
```

> If possible it should be worth to import dependencies from untraspiled source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If possible it should be worth to import dependencies from untraspiled sources.
```
```suggestion
If possible it should be worth to import dependencies from an untraspiled source.
```

> If possible it should be worth to import dependencies from untraspiled source.

Reviewer: I don't understand why it _should_ be worth it. If it is possible to import the untranspiled ones, why not try it?

```suggestion
If possible try to import dependencies from an untraspiled source.
```
Or even further:

<img width="200" src="https://media.giphy.com/media/pvDp7Ewpzt0o8/giphy.gif" />

```suggestion
If possible import dependencies from an untraspiled source.
```

Author: Yeah, I will follow Yoda's wisdom!

Any dependency that has to be transpiled should be [listed within webpack configuration](../config/webpack.common.js#28).

### Manual (dead) code elimination

> Sometimes we can't rely on libraries authors or on webpack in terms of tree-shaking aka dead-code-elimantion and we have to take matters into our own hands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes we can't rely on libraries' authors or on Webpack in terms of tree-shaking aka dead-code-elimantion and we have to take matters into our own hands.
```

> Webpack by [`IgnorePlugin`](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/ignore-plugin/) allows to drop selected modules and this [how moment's locales are not included in the final bundle](../config/webpack.common.js#45).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Webpack by [`IgnorePlugin`](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/ignore-plugin/) allows to drop selected modules and this [how Moment's locales are not included in the final bundle](../config/webpack.common.js#45).
```
